with the CIA, just like you cooperated with the Air
Force Security Service. Yeah. The National
Security Agency kind of gave direction to the Air
Force Security Service so that everybody was
doing something different rather than everybody
trying to do the same thing.
Well, what were you doing different here at the
National Security Agency and what you were doing
different from the Air Force Security Service?
Well, the Air Force Security Service is gathering
intelligence for frontline operation type of
thing, whereas the National Security Agency is
collecting information on a national level. I
see.
Air Force Security Service products, they went to
the National Security Agency. Okay,
now this is during a rather important time in
American history.
It was during McCarthyism
and the anti-communist crusade that was going on
in America. The FBI and the CIA, the powers of those
two organizations were boosted. There were
loyalty programs in the federal government.
Senator McCarthy himself was making a number of
charges against the loyalty of public officials.
Did that have anything to do with your agencies,
your jobs? I don't think so. No, I don't think so at
all. That was,
I would say that had no effect whatsoever. Okay.
Why didn't, why weren't you assigned to Korea?
Well, see I came back in 48 and And it just wasn't
time for me to rotate again.
See that was what, 52? 50 to 53. 50 to 53. See and I
just got back from overseas in 48.
And I just got command and security service in 50.
And
I guess the job I was doing there was more important
than sending me over to be group commander or wing
commander in Korea. Did you want to go to Korea? Did
you want to go to combat? Well at that time I had a
good job. While I was at the security service, I was
up until 51.
Then the one in Washington was really not a bad job,
it was just just didn't, you had no decision. You
didn't get to make decisions. No, I mean you really
didn't, it was a coordinating type of job. And
that's what my, that's not my
cup of tea. Right. So why'd you go to an MBA program?
Well, I had a lot of time on my hands. It was one of
these programs that you
work 40 hours a week. And I decided that if I was
going to have this kind of job, maybe I would just
get a master's degree and get out. Get out of the
service? Yeah. At this time, you're thinking
about resigning your commission? Well, you could
retire at that time. So you were beyond your 40, 50,
54. Oh, you could retire because you just were
getting your 20 years in then. Yeah.
So that's where they got into. took my master's
degree, and I did this at night. It wasn't on the Air
Force paid for
part of the tuition and part of the books. It was a
bootstrap program that they had. Oh, really? That
sounds like a good program. Yeah, if you were
willing to spend your time, the Air Force would pay
for about half your expenses of going to school.
So I got my master's degree in
November of 54.
And it was real interesting, actually. The
courses I took were real fascinating, really. It
was a two year program. Yeah, it was about a two year
program. And most of the professors were in Well,
like the
Director of Civilian Personnel at the Naval
Laboratories, which is an experimental station.
He came in and he ran a course on personnel
management. And then one of the high level
controllers from the Pentagon, ran a controllers
course.
So we had real top level professors who actually
were not day to day professors. They were people
who were actually on a job, doing it on a day to day
basis.
the most boring ones were the professors who had
written a book and he would read his book to you. Oh
that's terrible. And so we complained to him and of
course he completely turned it around and worked
us to death on making special assignments to each
one of us where we had to read some book and give a
book review on it as to what it said, almost every
week. When we complained to him about it, we wanted
to get more out of it than just reading his book on
industrial management.
He really gave it to us. Well, it sounds like you
weren't, after 18 years in the service, you
weren't very happy with your job in Washington
D.C. and you were thinking about alternatives at
that time. Well, I figured that
at that time I was looking for a promotion and I was
looking for a job to get promoted and if you weren't
going to promote me I just didn't want to hang
around and be dead wood in the Air Force. And I see, I
saw no future in that. So, I was really willing to
try my hand at something else.
And then what happened? What happened from 1953 to
1955? You got your master's degree, but you ended
your duty with the National Security Agency. 54,
and then I went to the National War College in 54.
Okay, let's talk about the National War College.
How did that differ from the Air Force War College?
Well, the National War College is a real high level
college and this is where you get into political
strengths of Russia and China. and you had people
like Ball and to give you, oh yeah, you had really
high level State Department people,
Secretary of State, Secretary of Defense, all
these type of individuals were over there talking
to you about
and this is more of a
geo, I said geo- International relations?
International relations type of thing. And we
took a trip and we went to London, England and was
briefed by not only the State Department and the
ambassador over there, but his counterpart would
brief us. We went to Spain, we had the same thing. We
went to Italy, had the same thing. We went to Libya,
we had the same thing. We went to Vienna, and we had
the same thing. And back to Paris, and you get
briefings on the economic status of the of France,
the political status of the state of France, the
military status of France, and you had, it was
quite an impressive course. And
again, it was a seminar type of thing, and you had to
prepare various papers on
they would assign you some kind of a subject,
or you could choose a subject, say, from 10 various
items they'd give you, and then you would have to
read up and prepare a master's type thesis on that
particular subject. And
like your critical metals, strategic metals type
of sources and what happens if Russia takes over
South Africa or why. What are you going to do? That
type of situations. That sounds fascinating.
Quite a change from the Air War College where it was
much more toward personal management. This one
seems much more toward international relations.
World strategy. It prepares you, yeah, prepares
you for I would
say jobs on the Joint Chiefs of Staff and exchange
student exchanges for in the State Department.
And you had, well let's see, you had a high-level
senior ambassador as one of the directors who
worked permanently over there. And you had a
commandant who was normally an Air Force or an Army
or a Navy three-star general. And then you had a
deputy from each of the other two services plus the
State Department.
And then you had about a third of the students or a
fourth of the students were from the State
Department, who were future ambassadors. No
kidding. Oh yeah, so you had a lot of high level
people there.
Sounds like your students would be really
stimulating too. Oh yeah, you know you had, no I
enjoyed it, I enjoyed it.
I see I was assigned to the, in 58 I was assigned to
Ambassador MacArthur's, now he's nephew I think
of Jim MacArthur. He was the ambassador to Japan
and I was the Air Force, I was in the military
assistance group. Air Force. That's a horrible
job too. We'll get to that, but I want to stay here at
the National War College. It sounds like a very
stimulating assignment. Is this one year? One
year now. I graduated what about June.
Sounds like an elite job too. I mean an elite
position. Sounds like they were, is it would it be
true to say that people go to the National War
College they're grooming for generalships?
Yeah, in fact I don't know what percentage it is,
but I would say probably 70% of the graduates of the
National War College make general officer, flag
officer.
Well, if you select the cream of your crop to go
there, well, it's natural that you should be in
line for promotion. In the future. You were
probably really delighted then when you got this
assignment. Oh, yeah. Not only did you. not only to
get away from the deputy directorship, but
also... Yeah, yeah, yeah. Opens up a new
assignment for
you. And then, then from, no, I would say that that
was, both Air War College is a very stimulating
school, and the National War College, I would say,
is very stimulating. In fact, I think any
education is stimulating. Sure. If you are I think
going and getting my master's degree was very
stimulating. Do you think the fact that you went
ahead on your own time and received that master's
degree, do you think that had anything, and
demonstrated to the Air Force that you had an
interest in higher education, do you think that
had anything to do with the fact that you were
appointed to the National War College? No,
because I didn't get my master's degree, I wasn't
awarded my master's degree until November after I
entered there in September. But still, you were
going. I was going, but I don't know that anybody
knew about it. Oh, I see. Although, see, you're
just not a student. If you're going under
bootstrap, all you do is sign the papers over at the
university and they submit them to the Air Force
for payment.
It was after the National War College that you got
your own command. 379th Wing in Homestead,
Florida. Can you tell me about that? Well see,
General LeMay was Commander Sack at the time.
Right. And General LeMay was, I knew him from
Hawaii. When I first was assigned to Hawaii as
second lieutenant, he ran a navigation school
over there, so as a first lieutenant, so My name was
familiar to him and I guess he asked for me. Oh
really? Well I don't know how I got his sign, but
anyway I got his sign to Lake Charles, Louisiana
and then I got 379th Bomb Wing because that 379th
Bomb Wing was being activated at the time. Okay.
These, what type of bombers? B-47s. B-47s? Yeah.
And how many did you have, and tell me about the size
of the unit, and your aim, your mission? Well, the
79th had three squadrons of B-47s, then I had a
squadron of KC-97s, who were tankers. And
Actually, the command must have been about 1500
people. And we moved down to Homestead and we
opened up Homestead as an air base. So you opened up
and built another one? Oh yeah, I mean that's...
That's one of the, seems like that's one of the
themes running throughout your entire career is
that you're opening up and building bases. That's
what my wife says every time I Every time I get it
built up while somebody else takes over. Well that
seems like the Air Force was quite happy with your
job doing that. Well we did a pretty good job on
379th and Brown Wing. I was real proud of 379th
because
we had a former cadre out of Lake Charles and then
we, the few people that I had, we went up to Waco and
selected all our pilots. for our B-47s to be
trained. They were going through a flying school
up at John Connolly Air Force Base at Waco and we had
one accident during the entire activation period
and that was right at the last where we had sent in a
few fill a cruise that we didn't have a chance to
select and then one of them had an accident. So we
had it pretty well organized and it's I think the
first time that we'd gone through an activation
program of B-47s that we had had only one accident.
In each quadrant of B-47s are there 15? Yeah, there
was about 15 of these squads, so we had 45. Yeah, it
was a pretty good outfit. You had about 45 B-47s and
about 15 tankers? About 15, 18 tankers, yeah. And
where were these B-47s? Here you are down in
Florida. Where was your primary flight area? What
did you take care of, the Caribbean? No, you were
just prepared to move to a foreign base. And
then from there you could, I don't know what the
strategy was, whether or not you were outside the
range of the Russian missiles, and that you take
off from there and be refueled a couple of times,
one in northern United States, one over
Newfoundland, so that you could accomplish your
mission.
At that time I think the strategy was that you
either move the wing forward to North Africa or
some other, lowering the main, or
just take off from there and be refueled.
And after that, I think they changed the strategy
so that you don't have a whole wing of airplanes on
one base. They were going to scatter them around so
you have one squadron at a base so that they're not
so easily destroyed. But that was real, yeah, in
fact I enjoyed that job too. I think that you would.
How many pilots did you have then if you had 60
planes under you? Well you probably had around 36
pilots or 40 pilots per squadron and then you had oh
let's say 30 in the air in the wing headquarters and
see one of your programs was you'd deploy from
Homestead over to over to to North Africa,
just south of Gibraltar. And so we would get
refueled over the Azores and refueled over
Newfoundland
and either back to the States, or if you're going
that way you get refueled twice going.
And that was just a test of your capability of
deploying rapidly overseas.
And I would imagine that you partook in a number of
these missions. Oh yeah, yeah. In fact we were at
one time coming back from one of those missions, I
was hooked onto a tanker and it developed engine
trouble in the Azores and it ditched. It did? And we
went down and circled it until the RC Rescue got
there. Has anybody hurt? No, I don't think anyone.
Those tankers float real good and apparently the
pilot did a real good job of setting it down in
water.
And then coming back, see we were on our way back and
that put us about 45 minutes behind the flow of
airplanes and so when we got over over New England,
we were getting intercepted because we weren't on
the flight plan, see, because we were behind
schedule. And about an hour behind schedule, but
we finally arrived back at Homestead without
landing. And when we got to Newfoundland,
of course all the tankers were just about headed
home, so we were screaming for tankers for fuel.
and some tanker commander said, where are you? We
don't know where we are. They weren't in the
holding pattern where they were supposed to be.
They were on their way home. He said, I see a
contrail. He said, make a nine degree turn to the
left. We made a nine degree turn to the left. Then he
directed us into him, we got fueled, and we did that
at Harman in Newfoundland, and then we came on
home. But it was exciting,
I guess. I betcha, I betcha. You know, this is SAC in
the 1950s was considered America's first line of
offense. Oh, I tell you, SAC LeMay is a wonderful
guy. I mean he is nothing, there's no commander
like him, never like him. I mean he built SAC up
until he was really a professional out there, but
he was very very brutal as far as firing people is
concerned. I mean you either were a lucky
commander or if you were unlucky why you didn't
want an unlucky commander around. I mean, maybe it
wasn't your fault at all that you had a bunch of
accidents, but he said, well, you're just
unlucky. You're just tough. I mean, it's just too
bad. And that's when I was... So he'd fire men
because of that? Oh, yeah. Even if they didn't have
anything to do with it? Well, he used to clean out
the wing commander, the director of operations,
the director of maintenance. He was just
completely replaced with the top four people in
the wing. Overnight. You have a couple of
airplanes run together, lose a lot of people, why?
He says, I can't afford it.
So he kept everybody nervous. He kept everybody
nervous. He came down, remember one time he came
down to inspect the 379th, probably down there,
and I showed him around and spent a couple hours
showing him the wing and what we were doing and
briefed him on flying time and pilot efficiency
and all that type of thing. And then I took him up and
delivered him to Arthur Godfrey. He was a very,
very close friend of Arthur Godfrey's up in Miami.
Oh, he was? Oh, yeah. And he was going out on a
fishing trip with Arthur Godfrey And when I got
back to base, my guy said, what happened? How did he
like it? And I said, well, I don't know how he liked
it. And I said, the only thing I know is I'm still his
wing commander, because he introduced me to
Arthur Godfrey as his wing commander. So I knew I
still had a job. But was that tenuous? It was that
tenuous, Curtis LeMay? Working with him? I mean,
you didn't know from one minute to the next that you
were still going to be a... No, well, it wasn't
really, it really wasn't that. He just wasn't, he
wasn't a guy that would brag on you. You know, he
wouldn't say, well, boy, that's a good job, or you
look like you're in good shape. He just expects it.
Yeah, he just expected it. And I said the only thing
he did was he just grunted now and then, but I said to
him, after I got to Arthur Godfrey, he introduced
me as wing commander, so I knew I still had a job. So I
was kidding, I guess. What kind of man was LeMay?
Did you get an opportunity to really find out what
he was like besides off the job sort of? Well, I
think LeMay is a workaholic. I think his job is his
job. And Mrs. LeMay He was an individual who was
very conscious of his people and taking care of his
people. And he had a family, he organized the
family services in Sac. It was second to none. That
when an outfit went TDY, why the officers and wives
who were left, who stayed at home would take care of
the wives who were the pilots and the crews that
were overseas, and they really took care of them. I
mean, they would be sure that none of them had any
problems. And when you reported in, you could go to
Family Services and draw beds and sheets, and they
had a fully equipped program. And when somebody
got killed, in an aircraft accident why he wanted
to be sure that that wife was taken care of. And she
was given all the assistance and even after a year
after that she still was looked after to be sure
that the Air Force hadn't forgotten her. I mean,
he's
well, I was in the hospital out at Wilford Hall here
about away six or eight months ago. I was his
roommate. He was in the urology ward and I was over
his eye. You mean he was here six or eight months
ago? Yeah. Oh yeah. I thought he was out in
California. Well he is in California but he was
flown back here for operation. And you were his
roommate? I was his roommate and
he had had his operation about three or four days
before mine. So he's always bringing me water.
Really? Yeah. I mean, he's that type of guy. And he
would tell the doctor, he says, now, he says, Doc,
blah, blah, this is a friend of mine now. This is Tex
Adler. I want you to take care of him. When he left. I
mean, he's that type of an individual. But as far as
professionalism is concerned, he expects you to
be the best. And he certainly didn't expect you to
slough off anything. He expects you to work 24
hours a day if necessary to get the job done.
It's just like in the navigation school in Hawaii.
That's the first time I'd run into him. You have a
navigation flight of 200 miles over water. Being a
mile off wasn't good enough. He wants you to be
right on the button. If you were happy.